Laser Cartesian
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6

Assembly
Focus the Laser
Software
Generate Laser Cutting Gcode
Generate Laser Engraving Gcode
Start Engraving/Cut

1.1 Assembly
STEP 1
Take 4 small and 2 medium T-Slots. Use the cube connectors to make two U shapes.
Part List: 4x Small T-Slots, 2x Medium T-Slots, 4x Cubes, 8x S1 and 8x Lids.

STEP 2
Connect one of the U shapes with a long T-Slot and fasten it with a S1, then take the other long T-Slot and connect it
to the other end of the U shape. Connect the last U shape with the structure.
Part List: 4x Lids, 2x Long T-Slots and 4x S1.

STEP 3
Fasten four small connector plates (both sides).
Part List: 8x S3, 4x Small Connectors Plates and 1x X-slider.

STEP 4
Mount the two Y-sliders to the X-sliders boxes, then fasten the X-slider to the Y-sliders with 8 S3 screws.
Part List: 8x S3, 2x Y-sliders and 1x X-slider.

STEP 5
Put the 3 sliders on top of the base structure, then mount and fasten the four connector plates to the base structure and
the sliders.
Part List: 4x Trays, 4x Connector Plates, 16x S2 and 8x S4.

STEP 6
Put the screws through the beds wholes and then fix them with the trays. Don’t fasten the screws with the trays yet.
Part List: 24x S7 and 24x Trays.

STEP 7
Mount the laser component on the middle X-slider. Fasten it with 4 S3 screws.
Part List: 4x S3.

STEP 8
Wiring diagram.

1.2 Focus the Laser
TIP: Print a cube with 25x25mm.

STEP 1
Safety comes first, make sure that the laser is off during this progress and use safety glasses. For this step you will need a
measurement tool. Loosen the screws on the side of the laser head to control its height. The laser should have an offset
of 25mm from your choice of material.

STEP 2
Tighten the screws on the side of the laser head when you´ve set the offset to 25mm.

1.3 Software
Go to www.febtop.com/support, click in download software under Laser Cartesian.

Go to www.febtop.com/support, click in Optimus Plugin under Other Docs.

1.4 Generate Laser Cutting Gcode

Open Inkscape > Document Properties and setup the page size.

If the size of object used engraving on is 50mm by 50mm, then set the page size to 50mm by 50mm.

For example, you could use the spline tool and draw a simple triangle. To convert the triangle into a cutting toolpath
(Gcode format) go to Extension > Laser Cut.

Travel Speed
Laser Speed
Laser Power
Passes

The speed of the tool head when not cutting (laser off).
The speed of the tool head when cutting (laser on).
The power of the laser beam in steps from 0 to 255.
How many times the toolhead will iterate the path (for 2 it goes around the path twice etc,
for some materials you need several passes until you can cut through it all).

Click Apply and you should see your toolpath represented by arrows with an orange color and a file with the Gcode
should have been created at the path you entered.

1.5 Generate Laser Engraving Gcode

Open Inkscape > Document Properties and setup the page size.

Drag in a picture to be engraved and convert into a engraving toolpath (Gcode format). Go to Extension > Laser Engrave.

Laser Power
Conversion Algorithm

The power of the laser beam in steps from 0 to 255.
Set the conversion method as you need.

1.6 Start Engraving/Cut

Depending on which machine you are planning on using, it’s very important to configure this. Click on SETTING and then
CONFIGS. Choose between the DELTA/CARTESIAN/CNC. Then turn the control box off and on again. Now your machine
is ready to be used.

Turn on the laser with low power by following the steps below.

Manually control the laser head to the corner of the object.

Click the printing icon and find your file in the file menu. Then you can start the cutting job by clicking on it. Just wait
until the Optimus finishes the job.

