Delta Laser
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7

Assembly
Print and Assembly Delta Laser Base
Focus the Laser
Software
Generate Laser Cutting Gcode
Generate Laser Engraving Gcode
Start Engraving/Cut

Before start, remove the Protection Part from the sliders before installation.

1.1 Assembly

STEP 1
Take the bottom plate and a slider (with label 1). Fasten 4 S3 screws from underneath into the slider.
Part List: 4x S3

STEP 2
Take the top plate and fasten it with 4 S3 screws on the slider.
Part List: 4x S3

STEP 3
Put it down horizontally.

STEP 4
Mount another slider (with label 2) with 4 S3 screws from the top and bottom.
Part List: 8x S3

STEP 5
Rotate it, so the side with no slider box points up.

STEP 6
Fasten the last slider (with label 3) with 4 S3 screws from both top and bottom.
Part List: 8x S3

STEP 7
Insert the control box from underneath and align with the 4 holes on the top plate. Then fasten with 4 S5 screws from
the top.
Part List: 4x S5

STEP 8
Insert the arms in the slots on the sliders and fasten them with 2 S2 screws each. The sharp edges should face up.
Part List: 6x S2

STEP 10
Mount the extruder from underneath and fasten from the top with 2 S5 screws.
Part List: 2x S5

STEP 13
Wiring diagram.

1.2 Print and Assembly Delta Laser Base

Go to www.febtop.com/support, click in Delta Laser Base under Other Docs and print it (set infill to 100%).

Use 6x S6 screws to fix the laser on the base and connect the base with the arms.

1.3 Focus the Laser
TIP: Print a cube with 25x25mm.

STEP 1
Safety comes first, make sure that the laser is off during this progress and use safety glasses. For this step you will need a
measurement tool. The laser should have an offset of 25mm from your choice of material.

1.4 Software
Go to www.febtop.com/support, click in Download Software under Laser Cartesian.

Go to www.febtop.com/support, click in Optimus Plugin under Other Docs.

1.5 Generate Laser Cutting Gcode

Open Inkscape > Document Properties and setup the page size.

If the size of object used engraving on is 50mm by 50mm, then set the page size to 50mm by 50mm.

For example, you could use the spline tool and draw a simple triangle. To convert the triangle into a cutting toolpath
(Gcode format) go to Extension > Laser Cut.

Travel Speed
Laser Speed
Laser Power
Passes

The speed of the tool head when not cutting (laser off).
The speed of the tool head when cutting (laser on).
The power of the laser beam in steps from 0 to 255.
How many times the toolhead will iterate the path (for 2 it goes around the path twice etc,
for some materials you need several passes until you can cut through it all).

Click Apply and you should see your toolpath represented by arrows with an orange color and a file with the Gcode
should have been created at the path you entered.

1.6 Generate Laser Engraving Gcode

Open Inkscape > Document Properties and setup the page size.

Drag in a picture to be engraved and convert into a engraving toolpath (Gcode format). Go to Extension > Laser Engrave.

Laser Power
Conversion Algorithm

The power of the laser beam in steps from 0 to 255.
Set the conversion method as you need.

1.7 Start Engraving/Cut

Depending on which machine you are planning on using, it’s very important to configure this. Click on SETTING and then
CONFIGS. Choose between the DELTA/CARTESIAN/CNC. Then turn the control box off and on again. Now your machine
is ready to be used.

Turn on the laser with low power by following the steps below.

Manually control the laser head to the corner of the object.

Click the printing icon and find your file in the file menu. Then you can start the cutting job by clicking on it. Just wait
until the Optimus finishes the job.

