3D Printer
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6

Assembly
Software
Setup the Machine - Configuration
Setup the Machine - Leveling
Setup the Machine - SD/USB
Setup the Machine – Printing

Before start, remove the Protection Part from the sliders before installation.

1.1 Assembly

STEP 1
Take the bottom plate and a slider (with label 1). Fasten 4 S3 screws from underneath into the slider.
Part List: 4x S3

STEP 2
Take the top plate and fasten it with 4 S3 screws on the slider.
Part List: 4x S3

STEP 3
Put it down horizontally.

STEP 4
Mount another slider (with label 2) with 4 S3 screws from the top and bottom.
Part List: 8x S3

STEP 5
Rotate it, so the side with no slider box points up.

STEP 6
Fasten the last slider (with label 3) with 4 S3 screws from both top and bottom.
Part List: 8x S3

STEP 7
Insert the control box from underneath and align with the 4 holes on the top plate. Then fasten with 4 S5 screws from
the top.
Part List: 4x S5

STEP 8
Insert the arms in the slots on the sliders and fasten them with 2 S2 screws each. The sharp edges should face up.
Part List: 6x S2

STEP 9
Screw 6 S6 screws through the arms into the hotend.
Part List: 6x S6

STEP 10
Mount the extruder from underneath and fasten from the top with 2 S5 screws.
Part List: 2x S5

STEP 11
Print Head Cable assembly.
Part List: Cable and Tube

STEP 12
Heated bed assembly.
Part List: 6x S8

STEP 13
Wiring diagram.

1.2 Software
Go to www.febtop.com/support, click in download software under 3D Printer.

Go to www.febtop.com/support, click on Optimus Profiles under Other Docs.

Extract the files into the Cura folder.

Open Cura, then go to Preferences and Configure Cura.

Select Printers and then click Add.

In Add Printer, go to Other and select the Optimus Delta. Then click Add Printer.

Preferences > Profiles, then click on the Import tab.

Import the profiles one by one.

Go back to Printers in Preferences and click on Machine Settings.

Adjust the Z-value that you got when you were leveling.

Now you can create a New Project or just open a file.

1.3 Setup the Machine - Configuration
Depending on which machine you are planning on using, it’s very important to configure this. Click on settings and then
Configuration. Choose between the DELTA/CARTESIAN/CNC. Then turn the control box off and on again. Now your
machine is ready to be used.

1.4 Setup the Machine - Leveling
Go to SETTING and then click LEVELING.

Click on Delta Z Height, then click RETURN and MOVE.

Adjust the steps to 0.1mm on the touchscreen. Put a piece of paper between the nozzle and the print head. Then click
and continue clicking on -Z while moving the paper back and forth. When you feel a slight of resistance from the paper
your Z-value has been determinedly. Write this Z-value down in machine settings in Cura.

1.5 Setup the Machine – SD/USB
Click on SETTINGS > SD/USB. Choose between SD/USB. Click RETURN to go back to menu.

1.6 Setup the Machine – Printing
Click PRINT, then choose your file you want to print. CLICK OK and then wait for the Optimus Delta to set up the
temperature and start to print.

